---
layout: post
title: "Robot Week"
date: 2021-05-20 11:32:42 +0000
categories: thoughts
comment_issue_id: 5
---

As a practical exercise, it would be good to do this. Institute a week of being Robot! 

So once in a while, do the Robot Week. What does this mean? Prepare ahead of time 2 lists:
 - Do's. This is the list of things you need to do every day of that week. These are usually quantifiable items (read 100 lines of text, learn 10 new words, do 5 new exercises, run 3k);
 - Don't s. These are usually items you don't want to do or want to get rid of the habit of doing them. They are categorical rather than quantifiable (don't eat bread, don't read news);

Now when the week starts, you would have these 2 lists in front of you and before doing something you would check the Don't list to make sure you don't do what is in there.
And at specific times (decided either in the list or generally) you would do an activity from the DO's list.

The important things (and where the Robot Week name comes from):

- Be a Robot! No emotions, not feelings, no laziness, no urges to do something else in the middle of an activity;
- The brain will try to cheat you, don't give up. You will start inventing reasons for doing something else or for breaking one of the DON'Ts;
- Do what is agreed ahead of time in the list and never change the list throughout the week;
- Do this for 1 week and see how it feels. 



Useful hints:

- Use time slots. Take a timer and put it at 25 minutes. Start the timer when you start your activity. And don't stop doing the activity before the time runs out whatever happens! Be it the end of the world, don't stop the activity until the timer stops!

When I was younger I believed in power of will and strong will. But there is no such thing. What exists though is routine and habit. 
Having good habits means having strong will. So this robot week is just a way of instituting good habits and routines.

Your goal is to acquire useful habits and get rid of damaging habits. I hope this exercise will be helpful.

There are no weak people or strong people. You are the sum of all your habits plus some circumstantial behavior. 

Good luck!