---
layout: post
title: "AI and possible implications"
date: 2026-03-19 13:11:42 +0000
categories: thoughts
comment_issue_id: 7
---

# AI and possible implications

In this post I am attempting to speculate on the future implications of the AI revolution.

In my opinion, several things may happen as a result of the AI revolution.

So what we are doing, is basically delegating intelligence or outsourcing intellect. This happens all the time, but not to this extent. For example, in societies, people delegate to the "heads" of state or other characters, to think in our place on many issues. That is our normal democratic process.

However, if we look in a broader sense, I think dogs, or in general pets, delegate their thinking and decision making to their masters.

So in this respect, we will be like dogs. We will delegate the thinking to AI.
Thinking is a very painful process, and it has to be, because it is very energy consuming and the body has to preserve energy. If thinking wouldn't be painful, we would die of exhaustion. Now, thinking being so hard even today, with the advent of the AI, we can now delegate it to AI. All decisions we need to make and any deep thought and analysis will be delegated to AI.

Obviously, nature being very economical with resources, will result in our own thinking capability being made redundant. Whatever you don't use is removed to spare energy. Our whole bodies revolve around the lifecycle of energy.

So I predict that humans, using AI may lose the following capabilities:

- To think deeply and analyze, maintaining attention for long periods of time
- Memorizing (no need to remember anything when you can ask 100 times the same things without any concern)
- Predicting things
- Spelling, Grammar, Eloquence
- Reading and understanding large amounts of text
- Talking and expressing thoughts clearly (AI can accept event some vague words and will understand what you mean in most cases)
- Imagination, inventiveness (AI can give you lots and lots of lists of ideas, and so on)

If we stop spending a vast proportion of our body's energy on thinking, the brain size will diminish and energy will be spent elsewhere. But where? Maybe we will require a lower intake of food then. Or we will become fatter.

Definitely, neural connections will weaken even after a short span of time (rather than generations) - in weeks or months.

The big problem is that thinking, globally will be uniform. After a while, everyone will start "thinking" in the same way. People will all have similar thoughts. But even more, it will be so much easier to manipulate the masses.

Nowadays to manipulate the masses you have to say something on the TV or tiktok or facebook. But the consumers still have a chance to apply their thinking and filter.

With mass usage of AI, given that there are a few major providers, it would be easy to alter the AI answers so that hundreds of millions of people get the same replies, recommendations, ideas, ...

But all these predictions may prove incorrect obviously. It could be much worse, or the opposite.

Yes, AI can be seen as a huge helper ridding us of low level thinking and unnecessary unproductive thinking. For example, when developers write programs, 90% of the code they write is some kind of scaffolding and setup code (e.g. input/output of data) that is almost always the same between different projects. Only 10% percent or so is business logic. So these 90% are the low level thinking that we do now, but will be avoided.

In fact, computer programming as we know it will disappear completely. We will not be coding anymore and as a result of that, we will forget how to code and will not understand coding anymore. In fact, AIs will invent their own programming languages which we would not be able to comprehend even.

Also, programs, websites, apps would become such a widespread and accessible commodity that they will disappear as such. In fact, the whole Internet as we know it will change tremendously.
Businesses will not have to contract other businesses to build websites for them. Instead, business owners will be able to build websites themselves. However, due to the nature of how AI agents will be widespread and used, there will be nobody to read those websites. The agents would order directly, so for businesses there would be very little usage of their websites.
So we can see that the internet will convert into something invisible .. it will become the pipes and sewers - doing essential work, but hidden from sight. Basically, the web as we know it will disappear, but the Internet as a transport layer will enhance its capability and usage.
There will be dedicated "websites" for AI agents. They would not be websites in fact, but rather just APIs or some other form of new protocols designed specifically for automated consumption and interaction.

Youtube videos will be initially generated by AI so there would be no point in watching them. So youtube will change a lot. If you want a video, you would have it generated instanly and in realtime. You would basically be able to interact with the video in realtime. This may become a new virtual reality.

Comments will be posted by AI (youtube,reddit, quora, ...) so no point in reading them at all..

News will be presented by AI avatars.

Looks like the people will either have more fun or will suffer a lot as a result of AI appocalipse. Or, rather, some people will have more fun while others will suffer.

Maybe it will all be brighter and better, just how electricity changed our lives for the better, so may happen with AI. Electricity replaced the need for physical effort, but AI will replace our thinking and emotional aspect. We will either become spiritual beings or some kind of animals.

Ultimately, one can view the machines and artificial intelligence as the new species dominating the Earth, just a normal process of evolution. The natural descendants. Only it took millions of years for humans to dominate Earth so we learned to live in harmony with the world. We learned to use it. But the AI revolution is basically instantanious, we have never seen this before. But probably this has been seen somewhere else in the Universe.

So if it is inevitable that civilizations eventually discover the artificial intelligence, it means that if we were to meet some advanced alien civilization, it would probably be a civilization of machines and artificial intelligence.

But what is artificial? For in Nature, nothing can be artificial, everything that is possible is natural as it exists in Nature. If we call artificial - something made by humans, yes AI is artificial, but if we look at the things as a whole, we can consider AI to be the result of natural evolution, therefore, it is natural. Even if it was made by us.

Anyway, initially, on the short term, there is a lot to learn and to discover with the use of AI. So we should just embrace it and use it for our advantage (over whom if everyone has access to this super intelligenc now?).

I've been writing this in order to try and clarify things for myself and trying to see where the things may be heading.
